---
layout: post
title: Project 1
permalink: /project-1/
---

Create a working prototype for an **Interactive Toy**. Think through the audience and environment that your toy lives in, i.e. visualize the scenario in which a user would interact with this interactive object.

Throughout the design and production process, be thoughtful in crafting an object and experience that is intentional. What is the purpose of your toy? Is it for learning? For building connection? Or simply for entertainment? Who is this toy intended for? Be sure to clarify the audience or user of your object, and carefully think through the relationship between this user and the toy. Choose inputs and outputs that are most appropriate for your concept.


<br>
**Checkpoints:**

- Tuesday, September 19th - project proposal due in class
- Thursday, October 3rd - first iteration due / show a working-prototype in class
- **Thursday, October 19th** - in class demo / presentation of your working project
- Sunday, October 22nd by end-of-day - final documentation due on your blog

<br>
**Proposal Requirements:**

<span class="highlight">Due September 19th in class</span>

- A detailed description of what you intend to build both from a technical and conceptual perspective - *what* is this toy and *how* will you build it. What is the purpose of this toy? Who is the user?
- A parts list - this includes things you need to buy AND parts that you already have
- A drawing or interaction diagram of the project

**Make a blog post of your proposal.** Your proposal will be given a 👍 or 👎 by Sept 21st.

<br>

**Prototype Requirements:**

<span class="highlight">Due October 3th in class</span>

- Demonstrate functional inputs / outputs - show me that you've begun working on the hardware and circuitry
- Demonstration of the final enclosure - made from cardboard, fabric, tape, etc..

<br>

**Your final blog documentation must include:**

<span class="highlight">Due Tuesday October 24th on your blog</span>

+ a formal description / summary of the project (~500 words)
+ high-quality photos of the finished object
+ video of your working project
+ schematic drawing of your circuit (created in Fritzing or EagleCAD)
+ the code for your project (posted via gist or with a link to github)

<br>
**Project Evaluation Criteria: 20% each** <br>
Concept, Hardware, Software, Enclosure, Presentation/Documentation <br>

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go - your grade for this project will largely be based on your in-class demonstration and on the documentation you publish to your blog. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should introduce the project as if the reader has never heard of the project before.

<br>
**Project 1 is worth 125pts**
