---
layout: post
title: Lab 2
permalink: /lab-2/
---

This lab explores series and parallel circuits, familiarizes you further with drawing schematics, and introduces soldering to a prototyping board. Finally, in this lab you are required to develop a concept for an interactive physical object. 

**Lab Objectives:**

+ Build LED circuits in series and parallel
+ Draw schematics by hand
+ Solder a circuit to a prototyping board
+ Develop a concept for an interactive object

**Tasks:**

1. Build two circuits on a breadboard, each with a minimum of two LEDs. One circuit should have the LEDs in series and the other should be in parallel and a switch could turn the whole circuit on and off. Before you start building, draw the schematic diagram for each circuit and use Ohm's Law to calculate the necessary resistor values given your particular power source *(you will not use the same resistor values for each circuit!)*.
2. Choose one of the circuits from this lab and translate it to a protoboard. Cleanly solder the components to the protoboard.
3. Develop a concept for an interactive object. Write a description of your idea that explains the ***WHY***. Consider the feedback loop. Create and post any graphics or drawings that will help explain your concept.

**Lab 2 Resources:**

+ [Series and Parallel Circuits](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/series-and-parallel-circuits)
+ [ITP Electronics Lab](https://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/labs/labs-electronics/electronics/)
+ [Schematic Diagram Videos](https://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/videos/videos-schematic-diagrams/)
+ [How to Solder Video](https://vimeo.com/107049478)

**Blog Response:**

+ Post photos and schematic drawings for the circuits that you built in this lab.
+ Briefly explain the difference between series and parallel circuits. What kind of circuit would be a more reliable option for connecting several LEDs? Why?
+ Post photos and an explanation of your process building a circuit on a protoboard. How did it go?

**Lab 2 is due before class on Tuesday September 12th.** Submit a link to your blog post on D2L.
