---
layout: post
title: Lab 6
permalink: /lab-6/
---

In this lab, you will use serial communication to send at least two sensor values from Arduino to [P5JS](https://p5js.org). Using P5, you must create an interactive, visual output from the incoming sensor data.

<span class="underlined">**Lab Objectives:**</span>

+ Explore serial communication between Arduino and P5
+ Learn how to appropriately format data to send between devices
+ Build an interface using P5

<span class="underlined">**Lab 6 Resources:**</span>

+ [Serial Output from Arduino to P5 as Binary](https://vimeo.com/237203208)
+ [Serial Output as ASCII](https://vimeo.com/239025399)

*Hint: use these video resources!!!*

<span class="underlined">**The Arduino Side:**</span>

Build a circuit with two analog sensors. Print the values to the Serial Monitor in Arduino to ensure that you are getting good values.

You will be sending these values serially to Processing, and since you are sending multiple values, you should send your data as an ASCII string and parse the data in P5. Pay attention to how you format your data in the Serial Monitor before moving to P5.

<span class="underlined">**The Processing Side:**</span>

Connect to the Serial Port that your Arduino is sending data to, read and parse the values into P5.

Design an interface using P5 - a visual output of data from your Arduino circuit. Simple is okay, just focus on building something responsive and intuitive.

<hr>

***Lab 8 is due before class on Tuesday October 31st***

Your blog response should include a *clear* video of what you made (show both the Arduino and P5 side), a schematic diagram, a brief written description of what you made, and all of your code embedded with GitHub Gist. Submit a link to your blog post on D2L.
